# August 8th, 2017

YouTube link: [https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9t4gRae4rsA](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9t4gRae4rsA)

## Purpose
To discuss various questions proposed by the OpenMined community.  Questions were posted in the YouTube Live Chat feed, as well as on our Slack channel.

## Outline
- [x] Welcome and introduction
- [x] General Announcements (new members, prominent tweets, etc.)
- [x] Announce Contributor Quickstart Guide
- [x] Announce Survey and Map Projects
- [x] Discuss new Project Management Workflow (roadmap+issues)
- [x] Address status of current projects and establish who to talk to about each project
  - [x] Andrew: Sonar, Syft, PySonar, Capsule, Mine.py
  - [x] Anoff: Mine.js
  - [x] Kevin: Docker and Github process
  - [x] Patrick: Adapters (still in proposal phase), UI (future)
- [x] Discuss Coding Standards
- [x] Address questions in #questions
- [x] Open up discussion

## Progress
- Significant progress on homomorphic encryption by working with the Tendermint team
- 140 members in the Slack channel (~80 new members in a week)
- Developed a contributor quickstart guide to catch new members up to speed
- Did a few public interviews on the project, started a discussion online with prominent members in the DS community

## Next Steps
- Formalize discussion around adapters and publish to Github docs repo
- Get further help on Docker development
- Standardize library names
- Further develop documentation on the project to ensure the scope of work is consistent across language-ported libraries (i.e. ensuring Mine.js and Mine.py end up having identical I/O's and feature sets)

## Questions
What keeps a data scientist from running a $10 campaign using all the available data expecting a 0.00000001 error?
> Economics. Mines are incentivized to participate in higher bounty neural networks because of the higher reward. It will take a lot longer for a mine to be trained on $10 than it will on $10,000.

What prevents a person from inputting fake data (read “fake news”) into their mine?  Is there some sort of community policing or moderation?
> Currently, this isn't directly preventable however it's an unlikely problem for some time. Generating quality fake data is really challenging in DS, so that's not likely an issue. As for users importing other user's information and claiming it as their own - this is still a potential issue and is open to greater discussion.  Potential solutions would include some methodology of community policing and developing some method for detecting this within the Mine code.

Is there going to be an initial coin sale?
> In theory, but it's not a discussion we're interested in having. The tech comes first, nobody is looking to get rich here.

What are the incentives to contributing to this project?
> Honestly, everyone currently contributing is doing so because it's a project they believe in. We believe in transparency, privacy, and anonymity. If you're looking to be financially compensated for your work then you shouldn't be looking to contribute to an open source project. It's fun tech with a good mission, that's what we're focused on.

How will we look to incorporating various third-party data science libraries?
> We're investigating future integrations with PyTorch and TensorFlow. That discussion will come in the future.
